Since I was a student?
Well,
I guess the major change that I immediately sensed
when I came back was the transition from an
all-military school from a compulsory military
to a non-compulsory military. When I was here in
the 50s it was compulsory and everybody was in the
Corps with the exception of some returning
veterans who was coming back from World War II and
still in the educational environment. But it was
an all-military school, an all-male
school. The emphasis, as I understood it then, and
also as I seem to sense it when I came back in 69, was
it was an undergraduate teaching institution.
They may have had graduate programs at that time. I
certainly don't recall in the 50s. And I do not
recall any kind of major emphasis in the research
area when I was a student. It seemed like the
faculty were here to teach and did little else.
The other thing is I recall at that time there was,
it seemed to me anyway, a large percentage of the
faculty were A&M graduates. That's not
particularly bad. I make no value judgment on that
one way or the other, but that seemed to be the
situation. But I came back in 69. It was evident,
and other than the physical facilities, a great
change in the physical facilities of the
university. There's no comparing that. The
change the university went through when Dr.
Williams was president in terms of remodeling the
campus and trying to keep the campus up in terms of
building, it was just a phenomenal change.
There's no way to describe that. So there was a...
Dr. Williams was the... was the president of the
university after President Rudder, Jack
Williams.
He was an excellent president. I think one of the
major contributions he made to this university
was putting its campus in order, physically in
order, in addition to the growth of the academic
programs to make it truly a university. It was a
college in 1950. was primarily agriculture and
engineering. I'm sure that there were some other
programs, but
I was not aware of them. They just didn't have the
emphasis. It was engineering and agriculture.
Well, when
I came in 69, I sensed a transition occurring then,
that the idea was to have a faculty member that
could be a researcher and a teacher. And it seemed
like from that point on, in the early 70s and so
forth, The idea was to try to employ people that
could do research as well as teach.
And as I began to move into administrative
positions where I was more aware of what I
considered to be the administration's policy,
that was true. There was an emphasis being placed
on research and teaching. And in the 50s, where you
had a teaching faculty, that could probably do
research, I guess. I don't know. Now we have a
greater percentage of our faculty that are
research faculty that can also teach. And in my
opinion, I don't think we have degraded the
teaching quality of our faculty. We've added a
faculty that has an additional characteristic.
Do you think that the emphasis on research may have
gone too far at the expense of teaching quality? I
think that the seeds have been planted that can
take us too far. There's been a lot of criticism of
these National Science Foundation research
grants for some of the topics that have been
seemingly impractical topics that have been
researched, and this has led to a lot of opposition
to this program in Congress. In fact, I believe the
budget for the whole program was left out of, the
money for the whole program was inadvertently
left out of the budget and had to go back and be put
in, but the funds haven't been cut on this. Because
a lot of congressmen have been saying that some of
these research projects don't have any real
practical value. What's your idea on this? Well,
that, historically... Is research, for the sake
of research, desirable? Historically, the
National Science Foundation has not funded
engineering projects. This, of course, has been
always a thorn in the side of the engineering
community that we do not have a federal agency that
looks into or supplies or funds engineering
research per se. I don't know, 10 years ago or so, a
small arm of the National Science Foundation was
added to try to take care of engineering-related
research. I think that in the types of projects
you're mentioning, you won't find one of those
being called out that was actually being funded by
the Engineering Army. The Engineering Army has
their emphasis more on funding programs to solve
problems. Our emphasis here in the college, and I
would suppose the university, is more applied as
opposed to developing knowledge for knowledge
sake. I know at least in the College of Engineering
our programs are directed, research is directed
at solving a particular problem or a set of
problems.
What are some of the challenges that an industrial
engineer would expect in the 1980s. I was
going to say before I say that another part of the
growth has been in the research area and it's been
undergirded and has been strengthened through
the engineering experiment station. I don't know
exactly when the engineering experiment station
begin to move into an expanding role of research.
It seemed like to me it must have occurred sometime
in the 60s. But with the expanding role of the
Engineering Experiment Station, the concept of
research, as well as teaching at the college and
university level, that became more into focus.
Prior to the real growth and emphasis in research
by the Engineering Experiment Station, we were a
teaching institution. As the Experiment Station
grew and matured and took its rightful role in
serving the Texas community, which has to do with
research, serving the Texas community in proper
sense, then the idea of research in the College of
Texas A&M began to establish its own position and
take a rightful position in teaching. That
occurred, it seems like to me, in the last 10 years.
When I came in 69, I was aware of the Engineering
Experiment Station, but its role was not as
focused as it became in the next 10 years. to really
try to meet the needs, technological needs of the
industry and the people of the state of Texas. And
when they saw that, when the administration and
the leadership saw that, then research became a
greater focus. And it took sort of a rightful
position with teaching. Now, what was that
question? What future challenges will
industrial engineers expect to see in the 80s?
Well, everything is going to cost more. And the
industrial engineer will be asked to perform
decision-making roles that will permit growth
and production to occur in a more economical
fashion so as to guarantee profits.
In other words, updating plant equipment to make
them more efficient. Right, and that's it. Now,
the difficulty of that is that the technology is
more complex, and the idea of saying I'm going to
make a decision between the two types of lathes 25
years ago is not like saying make a decision
between two different types of robots or
numerical control machinery. Because you talk
about millions of dollars of investment per atom.
So what the industrial engineer is going to have to
do, he's going to have to improve his tools of what
we call simulation. What we teach our students now
is the ability to simulate complex processes. By
that I mean to quantify, to quantitatively
describe them. put that on a computer. If you can
quantitatively describe your system and you know
the variables that are going to relate to the
operation of that system, then you can program it
and change them by computer. And within seconds,
you can see what, if you make this change, what the
impact will be, or you make this change, what the
impact will be. The challenge will be for our
industrial engineers to be able to quantifiably
simulate complex manufacturing systems so that
they can help management make the correct
decisions in planning for productivity and
technology growth. If we're ever going to get back
ahead in the productivity game, my feeling is the
industrial engineers are going to get us there.
That's the general feeling of the engineering
community now. It's probably that particular
item that industrial engineering will actually
hang its hat on for the next decade, 25 years.
Actually be that item that industrial
engineering will effectively move into what we
call the engineering community. You may not be
aware of it, but industrial engineering is a
fairly young engineering technology. Organized
itself, as far as the society is concerned, is
about as early as 1946. Industrial engineering,
as such, is an all-new period of non-acceptance by
the other engineers, whereas chemical engineers
are mechanical engineers. Electrical engineers
have been around years and years and years. Do we
really need something called industrial
engineering? industrial engineering has for the
past 25 years or so been groping through the maze of
technology trying to find that item. They hang
their hats over and say, this is what industrial
engineers do. I think the productivity issue is
what you mean by that. Regarding this
productivity issue, the way I understand it, it's
said that the plants in the United States are not as
cost-efficient as those in West Germany or Japan.
Is that true? Yes. Of course, you say, why aren't
they? There's a number of reasons why they're not.
But the main reason is that they're outdated and
outmoded. Since the Japanese... West German
plants were built right after World War II. These
others were built earlier. That's exactly right.
The idea that our plants are outmoded and the idea
that our plants are operating at the less than
maximum efficiency. And that's the reason we're
here. Most of the companies, to get these plants
updated, this won't be a problem. Most of the
companies are looking at, that we're aware of, are
looking at a 10-year program of what they call
re-industrialization. I
think that the U.S. is going to go through a new
industrial revolution that they experienced and
the whole world experienced it so many years ago.
And during this time, I think we'll be upgrading
and modifying and modernizing our manufacturing
systems. It's going to be very critical that
during this process that the right decision is
made. You don't want to buy machinery and put in,
modernize your plant and make the wrong decision
on what you buy. I think that's part of the
inflation problem is the fact that our plants are
not always up to date as they should be. It's a
production problem. Things cost more because we
don't produce as much. I sincerely believe that. I
agree with Bill Grimm. Let me ask you one other
thing I should have asked you earlier. When you
came in 69, about how many students were there in
industrial engineering? There were about 1,800 a
day. How has this changed in these 12 years?
I've been able to tell you how it's changed since I
became a partner here. We had a little over 900
students when I became a partner here. So it's
doubled in six years. If I were to extrapolate back
to 69 and recalling some of the
things Brother told me, we must have been
somewhere around So
you've tripled in 12 years. Is there anything else
that you'd like to say before we close? Anything
that I didn't touch on that I should have? Well...
You know, I was going to say, I'm going to sort of
pass on this changes, in addition to physical
changes, which is evident, and enrollment
changes, which is less evident and yet evident
to the person that's probably in there, is this
research teaching emphasis. Another major
change that's occurred seems to be that
Texas A&M has been a growth in graduate education.
Of course, this may be tied to the growth
of research and kind of change, given the emphasis
of research. But there's been a major change in
terms of graduate education. A&M has always been a
very strong undergraduate institution. And as
such, it's made quite an impact but
we have never made a major impact
at other institutions
of higher learning. We just don't have that many
faculty, people who are on PhDs teaching
elsewhere. One reason we would never have the
graduate program. I think that we're gonna see in
the next, 25 years certainly increase in the
number of Texas A&M University PhDs teaching in
other universities as such can't do anything but
help us increase our image in the academic
community the academic community unfortunately
does not rate another university in terms of its
undergraduate program per se. Those students go
in the industry and make your reputation in the
industry. Other academic institutions
generally measure you in terms of your students
that you put out and become faculty researchers
and publish at other institutions. We're behind
the power curve on that because we have not had the
graduate programs.
We're going to see that catching up shortly. Even
though still a lot of our students, even our
graduate students are going into the industry,
there is an increasing percentage going into
teaching now. And we're going to see the image of
Texas A&M certainly increase in the academic
community as a result. Is there anything else? No,
I don't think so. I appreciate you taking the time
to talk with us when it comes to health. Are you
sure? It seems like I'm wandering around here.
Thank you.